# Coq Formalization
A Type-Directed Operational Semantics for a Calculus with a Merge Operator

## Building Instructions

Our Coq proofs are verified in **Coq 8.10.2** and **Coq 8.11.1**. We rely on two Coq libraries:
[`metalib`](https://github.com/plclub/metalib) for the locally nameless
representation in our proofs; and
[`LibTactics.v`](http://gallium.inria.fr/~fpottier/ssphs/LibTactics.html),
which is included in the directory.



### Prerequisites

1. Install Coq 8.10.2 or Coq 8.11.1.
   The recommended way to install Coq is via `OPAM`. Refer to
   [here](https://coq.inria.fr/opam/www/using.html) for detailed steps. Or one could
   download the pre-built packages for Windows and MacOS via
   [here](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.10.2). Choose a suitable installer
   according to your platform.

2. Make sure `Coq` is installed (type `coqc` in the terminal, if you see "command
   not found" this means you have not properly installed Coq), then install `Metalib`:
   1. Open terminal
   2. `git clone https://github.com/plclub/metalib`
   3. `cd metalib/Metalib`
   4. Make sure the version is correct by `git checkout 04b7aeaf82ceb7e00e1e456fc9fea20a85e09f6f`
   5. `make install`

### Build and Compile the Proofs

1. Enter either `main_version` or `variant` directory.

2. Type `make` in the terminal to build and compile the proofs.

3. You should see something like the following (suppose `>` is the prompt):
   ```sh
   coq_makefile -arg '-w -variable-collision,-meta-collision,-require-in-module' -f _CoqProject -o CoqSrc.mk
   COQDEP VFILES
   COQC LibTactics.v
   COQC syntax_ott.v
   COQC rules_inf.v
   COQC Subtyping_inversion.v
   COQC Infrastructure.v
   COQC Deterministic.v
   COQC Type_Safety.v
   COQC rules_inf2.v
   COQC dunfield.v
   COQC icfp.v
   ```

4. `syntax_ott.v`, `rules_inf.v`, and `rules_inf2.v` are generated by Ott and LNgen. Run `make ott clean` to remove them.
Then `make` can reproduce the code (with Ott and LNgen installed).

## Proof Structure

- `main_version` directory contains the definition and proofs of the main calculus
- `variant` directory contains the definition and proofs of the simple variant
(discussed in the Appendix).

- The structures of both directories are almost the same, except
`main_version/icfp_bidirectional.v`.
It extends the bidirectional type system of lambdai by a fixpoint rule, and uses
the same definition of disjointness like our system.
In it a different completeness theorem is proved.

- `syntax_ott.v` contains the locally nameless definitions of the calculi and Dunfield's calculus.
It involves the typing and semantics of the calculi, the semantics of Dunfield's calculus, and the typing of
lambdai (icfp2016). One unified definition of type is used. The last two share the same set of expressions (dexp).
- `rules_inf.v` and `rules_inf2.v` contains the `lngen` generated code.
- `Infrastructure.v` contains the type systems of the calculi and some lemmas.
- `Subtyping_inversion.v` contains some properties of the subtyping relation.
- `Key_properties.v` constains some necessary lemmas about typed reduction, top-like relation and disjointness.
- `Deterministic.v` contains the proofs of the determinism property.
- `Type_Safety.v` contains the proofs of the type preservation and progress properties.
- `dunfield.v` contains the proofs of the soundness theorem with respect to Dunfield's calculus.
- `icfp.v`contains the proofs of the completeness theorem with respect to lambdai (icfp2016).
